docs: add Stacker summary to Flex manual (#19515)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: docs/flex/docs/modules/stacker.md

---
title: "Opentrons Flex: Stacker"
---

![Stacker module image](../images/stacker-module.png)

!!!info "Additional Documentation"
    For complete instructions on module installation and use, see the [Stacker Module Instruction Manual](../../stacker/index.md).

The Opentrons Flex® Stacker is an external module that provides automated, high-capacity storage for ANSI/SLAS compatible labware such as well plates, tip racks, and reservoirs. It also includes a shuttle that moves labware from the Stacker to the deck where it can be accessed manually or by the Flex Gripper. When attached, the Stacker increases your robot's labware storage capacity and throughput, allowing you to run longer, more complex protocols without interruption.

## Stacker features

### Deck locations

> You attach each Stacker to the right side of a Flex with its deck slot adapter. The adapter fits in any available column 3 deck slot (A3 to D3). The adapter also provides labware storage in column 3, so you don't lose any deck space. You can attach up to four Stackers on a single Flex. See the instruction manual (linked above) for step-by-step installation instructions.

Reviewer: Even more useful direction?
```suggestion
You attach each Stacker to the right side of a Flex with its deck slot adapter. The adapter fits in any available column 3 deck slot (A3 to D3). The adapter also provides labware storage in column 3, so you don't lose any deck space. You can attach up to four Stackers on a single Flex. See the instruction manual for [step-by-step installation instructions](../../stacker/installation.md).
```

Author: More deep linking, love it!

    <tr>
      <th>Labware category</th>
      <th>Stacker-compatible labware</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Pipette tips</td>
      <td>Stores a maximum of six <a href="https://opentrons.com/products/categories/tips-&-labware">Opentrons Flex tip racks</a> in each Stacker. This includes: 
        <ul>
            <li>50 µL, 200 µL, or 1000 µL tips</li>
            <li>Filtered or unfiltered tips</li>
            <li>Tip racks with or without lids</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Well plates</td>
      <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Opentrons Tough 96 Well Plate 200 µL PCR Full Skirt</li>
            <li>Bio-Rad 96 Well Plate 200 µL PCR</li>
            <li>Bio-Rad 384 Well Plate 50 µL</li>
            <li>Corning 24 Well Plate 3.4 mL Flat</li>
            <li>NEST 96 Deep Well Plate 2 mL</li>
            <li>NEST 96 Well Plate 100 µL PCR Full Skirt</li>
            <li>NEST 96 Well Plate 200 µL Flat</li>
            <li>ThermoFisher Armadillo PCR Plate, 384-Well, Clear Wells</li>
          </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Module compatibility

The Stacker is compatible with all other Flex modules.

> However, if you want to use a HEPA/UV module with a Stacker on a Flex robot manufactured before September 2025, you will need an upgrade kit. This kit, which adds new hardware and electronics to your Flex, prevents the HEPA/UV module from operating if the Stacker is improperly installed. Robots manufactured after September 2025 have these safety features built-in and do not require this upgrade. _The upgrade must be performed by an Opentrons field service technician_.

Reviewer: I think we're enforcing this regardless of your HEPA/UV usage. 
```suggestion
If you want to use a Stacker on a Flex robot manufactured before September 2025, you will need an upgrade kit. This kit, which adds new hardware and electronics to your Flex, prevents the HEPA/UV module from operating if the Stacker is improperly installed. Robots manufactured after September 2025 have these safety features built-in and do not require this upgrade. _The upgrade must be performed by an Opentrons field service technician_.
```

Author: Oh, that's right! This is a blanket update.
